Middle East next and the Israeli Army
says five of its soldiers were killed
when they were mistakenly fired on by
one of its tanks in Northern Gaza two
shells were fired at paratroopers in
jabalia these images show the aftermath
of an Israeli strike in jabalia Israeli
ground forces re-entered the area
earlier this month with more his our
correspondent Dan Johnson in
Jerusalem we know that five soldiers
from the IDF lost their lives yesterday
in the north of Gaza this is in jabalia
an area that the Israeli military has
had to return to having previously
declared it cleared of Hamas Fighters
earlier in this conflict around January
they completed military operations in
that area but have had to go back there
in the last few days and that's raised a
question over the sustainability of
Israel's military strategy here whether
they are actually able to sustainably
clear out Hamas for good and that is
something that is now playing out at the
top of Israeli government we have the
defense minister yav Galant challenging
the prime minister to set out a clear
plan for how Gaza will be governed once
the military operation is over and if I
show you the front pages of some of the
Israeli press this morning you've got
yav Galant and prime minister Netanyahu
there the headline says this is no way
to run a war and on this paper you've
got a headline saying that a military
government in Gaza would mean only blood
and sacrifices without purpose you've
got the Jerusalem Post there saying
Galant slam Netanyahu indecisiveness on
Gaza and the defense minister said he'd
been asking for these assurances
repeatedly since October but the Prime
Minister had not been able to lay out
any clear plan of how the Palestinian
people in Gaza would be governed after
the military operation concludes there
are questions about who will represent
them how will they rebuild their
infrastructure what will the role of the
Israelis other nations and international
organizations be prime minister
netanyahu's response to that challenge
yesterday was just to say say that his
priority right now is to eradicate Hamas
and that he would not consider any sort
of Deal or power sharing arrangement
with the Palestinian Authority who he
considered to be supportive of terrorism
so that question remains open in the
meantime there is this division at the
top of Israeli politics which has now
led to some in the government calling
for the defense minister yab Galant to
be sacked from his role yeah
interestingly there another member of
the war cabinet Benny Gant in support of
what Mr glamp
said yes there has been support he's
been defended by Benny gance others
calling for him to go saying that the
defense minister failed on October the
7th that he' continued to fail and that
he should now be removed from his
position so the focus now is on how
Benjamin Netanyahu responds to that will
he keep Mr Galant in his position he
tried to sack him a year ago before the
October the 7th attacks and there were
Mass Street protests that erupted then
that meant uh Mr Galant was able to stay
in his role there's a suggestion here
that his position in calling for a clear
plan is puts him in closer alignment
with what the Americans want to see and
everyone seems to accept that once the
military operation is over Benjamin
netanyahu's future doesn't look like it
can continue at the top of Israeli
politics so perhaps this is Mr Gant
positioning himself with the Americans
as a future Prime Minister not just to
conclude the war but then to lay out a
future for Gaza Dan Johnson reporting
from Jerusalem